ERC 20 Adapter (#9)
StraitsX/ERCs: ERCS/erc-7291.md

    /// - The caller must be either the creator of the token type or the smart contract owner.
    function revokePBM(uint256 tokenId) external;

    /// @notice Processes payment request from customer to merchant, unwrapping PBM tokens upon successful validation
    /// @dev This function handles the merchant payment flow, performing necessary validations and unwrapping the underlying sovToken
    /// @param from Wallet address to deduct PBM from
    /// @param to Payment destination address (must be a whitelisted merchant address)
    /// @param id PBM Token identifier
    /// @param amount Number of PBM tokens to send

>     /// @param sourceReferenceID Unique payment identifier for tracking and validation purposes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    /// @param sourceReferenceID Unique payment identifier of the payment. It is used to track the payment during the payment cycle.
```

    /// @param data Additional metadata for payment processing

>     function requestPayment(address from, address to, uint256 id, uint256 amount, string memory sourceReferenceID, bytes memory data) external;

Reviewer: do we need id? I thought it was already initialised when they deploy the adapter?

>     function requestPayment(address from, address to, uint256 id, uint256 amount, string memory sourceReferenceID, bytes memory data) external;

Reviewer 2: actually im thinking we need not introduce the concept of `requestPayment()`

because `requestPayment()` is an additional construct that we built to cater to our payment logic.

the original pbm concept is simply, if compliance checks ok (ie: such as address list etc) then it will unwrap automatically upon sending to a merchant address.

we later added the requestPayment flow to handle the case of acquirer server error, which will not happen if PBM is used in a 100% Web3 world

##### Motivation

While ERC-1155 offers flexibility and multi-token support, ERC-20 remains the most widely adopted token interface for wallets and dApps. The ERC-20 Adapter allows PBM tokens to be represented and transferred as ERC-20 tokens, improving compatibility and user experience.

##### Specification

The ERC-20 Adapter acts as a bridge between the PBM (ERC-1155) contract and the ERC-20 interface. It allows users to interact with a specific PBM tokenId as if it were a standard ERC-20 token, while internally invoking the appropriate PBM logic.

Example interface:

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

/// @title ERC-20 Adapter for PBM
/// @notice This contract wraps a specific PBM tokenId as an ERC-20 token for compatibility with ERC-20 wallets and dApps.
contract PBMERC20Adapter {
    address public pbmContract;
    uint256 public tokenId;

    constructor(address _pbmContract, uint256 _tokenId) {
        pbmContract = _pbmContract;
        tokenId = _tokenId;
    }

>     // Implement ERC-20 functions (balanceOf, allowance, approve, etc.) as wrappers around PBM logic

Reviewer: Can be clearer on which erc-20 function maps to which ERC1155/PBM functions. 

Can also state whether using this wrapper will have any limitations/disadvantages?

}
```

##### Usage

- Each PBM token type (tokenId) can have a corresponding ERC-20 Adapter contract.
- The adapter exposes standard ERC-20 functions, internally mapping them to the PBM's ERC-1155 logic.

> - This enables wallets and dApps that only support ERC-20 to interact with PBM tokens transparently.

Reviewer: one issue is when we requestPayment to PBM, it takes in additional parameters that a basic transfer function doesn't provide. should add that ERC20 adapter must implement this mandatory functions?

Reviewer: actually, should requestPayment itself be in the IPBMRC1?

##### Example

```solidity
// Example usage of the adapter
PBMERC20Adapter adapter = new PBMERC20Adapter(address(pbm), 0); // 0 = tokenId
```

> ##### Rationale

Reviewer: maybe move to the Rationale section since all other rationales are there

This adapter pattern allows for maximum compatibility and ease of integration, especially for wallets and services that do not yet support ERC-1155. It also enables a smoother user experience for end-users who expect ERC-20 style tokens.

> ## Rationale

Reviewer: add a FAQ on why we choose to have an ERC20 adapter rather than a native erc20 PBM --> i.e. to maximise compatibility and at the same time maintain benefits brought by usage of ERC1155.

```

#### ERC-20 Adapter

Some developers and wallet providers may prefer to interact with PBM tokens using the widely supported ERC-20 interface, rather than ERC-1155. This extension provides an adapter that exposes PBM tokens as ERC-20 tokens, enabling seamless integration with existing wallets and infrastructure that do not natively support ERC-1155.

##### Motivation

While ERC-1155 offers flexibility and multi-token support, ERC-20 remains the most widely adopted token interface for wallets and dApps. The ERC-20 Adapter allows PBM tokens to be represented and transferred as ERC-20 tokens, improving compatibility and user experience.

##### Specification

The ERC-20 Adapter acts as a bridge between the PBM (ERC-1155) contract and the ERC-20 interface. It allows users to interact with a specific PBM tokenId as if it were a standard ERC-20 token, while internally invoking the appropriate PBM logic.

Example interface:

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

/// @title ERC-20 Adapter for PBM

> /// @notice This contract wraps a specific PBM tokenId as an ERC-20 token for compatibility with ERC-20 wallets and dApps.

Reviewer: can elaborate on the minimum number of events that the adapter user needs to subscribe to manage end to end payment flow: MerchantPaymentCreated, MerchantPaymentCompleted, MerchantPaymentCancelled, MerchantPaymentRejected?

contract PBMERC20Adapter {
    address public pbmContract;
    address public eventSourceContract;

>     uint256 public tokenId;

Reviewer 2: valid point Mr AI

    constructor(address _pbmContract, address _eventSourceContract, uint256 _tokenId) {
        pbmContract = _pbmContract;
        eventSourceContract = _eventSourceContract;
        tokenId = _tokenId;
    }

    /// @notice Standard ERC-20 transfer function that maps to PBM safeTransferFrom for peer-to-peer transfers
    /// @dev This performs PBM peer-to-peer transfer without unwrapping
    function transfer(address to, uint256 amount) external returns (bool);

    /// @notice Custom function required for PBM payment requests to merchants
    /// @dev This function is necessary for unwrapping PBM tokens when paying merchants
    /// Wallet providers MUST implement support for this function to enable full PBM functionality
    /// @param from Wallet address to deduct PBM from
    /// @param to Payment destination address (must be a whitelisted merchant address)
    /// @param amount Number of PBM tokens to send

>     /// @param sourceReferenceID Unique payment identifier for tracking and validation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    /// @param sourceReferenceID Unique payment identifier of the payment. It is used to track the payment during the payment cycle.
```

    }

    // Implement other ERC-20 functions (balanceOf, allowance, approve, etc.) as wrappers around PBM logic

```

##### Usage

- Each PBM token type (tokenId) can have a corresponding ERC-20 Adapter contract.
- The adapter exposes standard ERC-20 functions, internally mapping them to the PBM's ERC-1155 logic.
- This enables wallets and dApps that only support ERC-20 to interact with PBM tokens transparently.

##### Limitations and Requirements
- Wallet providers still need to implement the requestPayment function to enable merchant payments and PBM unwrapping. Standard ERC-20 transfer only supports peer-to-peer transfers without unwrapping.
- Wallet providers must subscribe to events from both the adapter contract and the underlying PBM contract (and potentially separate event source contracts) to receive complete transaction information.

##### Example

```solidity
// Example usage of the adapter
PBMERC20Adapter adapter = new PBMERC20Adapter(
    address(pbmContract),      // Main PBM contract address
    address(eventSource),      // Event source contract (may be same as PBM contract)

>     0                         // tokenId

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    0                          // tokenId
```
NIT

- This standard sticks to the push transaction model where the transfer of PBM is initiated on the sender's side. Modern wallets can support the required PBM logic by embedding the unwrapping logic within the ERC-1155 `safeTransfer` function.

### Why provide an ERC-20 Adapter?

> This adapter pattern allows for maximum compatibility and ease of integration, especially for wallets and services that do not yet support ERC-1155. It also enables a smoother user experience for end-users who expect ERC-20 style tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This adapter pattern allows for maximum compatibility and ease of integration, especially for wallets and services that do not support ERC-1155. It also enables a smoother user experience for end-users who expect ERC-20 style tokens.
```
